SuperTransect
Hypotheses, Questions, and Methods

1) Bacteria vary along the distance gradient

	A) for each evironmental sample type, changes in the community are correlated with the gradient.

	Method1: NMDS on Unifrac/Bray-Curtis distances. Show correlation between NMDS axis 1 and shore_dist
	Method2: Mantel test of distances with physical distance

	Question1: Are there other confounding variables that would also explain this pattern?
	Question2: Is this variation linear along shore_dist?  

	B) Within environmental sample types, specific OTUs change in abundance along the gradient, which drives the change in communities

	Method1: Fit linear models to each OTU where abundance is predicted by shore_dist. Transform abundance into z-scores to make coefficients comparable across OTUs. Also transform shore_dist into z-scores to allow for regression. Issues include very tiny coefficients due to z-score transformation and false positives due to violation of assumptions and lots of tests.
	Method2: Fit generalized additive models to each OTU where abundance is predicted by shore_dist. GAMS can fit non-linear models and can be compared to linear models to see if they perform significantly better. GAMS can be configured to handle zero-inflated data sets, which makes them well suited to OTU abundance data.
	Method3: Pull out specific OTUs predicted to be significantly correlated with the gradient with high model fit and high abundance. Come up with plausible explanation for variation.

	Question1: What is the most appropriate model for this?
	Question2: How should I transform the model coefficients for volcano plots? 

 	C) For each animal host sample type, changes in communities and OTU abundance are not correlated with the gradient. 
	Method1: NMDS as above
	Method2: Linear models as above

	D) Plant root communities overlap with soil, but are detectably different. Changes in community are correlated with the gradient, but maybe not for plant specific OTUs.
	Method1: Compare plant root communities to soil communities. What's the best way?
	Method2: subset OTUs found in plant roots, but not environmental samples. Use linear models to test if these OTUs are correlated with shore_dist

2) Summit and Estuary are unique/extreme and have their own communities for each environmental sample type.
	A)  Sites that are not Estuary or Summit are pretty similar.
	Method1: Not sure how to show this. Venn diagrams? Something better?

	B) There is no difference between sites below the waterfall and above the waterfall.
	Method1: Compare two transects above garden (Above Falls & Drum Road Makai vs. Falls & Garden)





